🗓️ Day 1 of 100 — Introduction to Go (Golang) from Scratch
🧠 1. What is Go (Golang)?

Go, also known as Golang, is an open-source programming language created at Google in 2009 by Robert Griesemer, Rob Pike, and Ken Thompson (the same people who helped design Unix, UTF-8, and C).

Go was designed to solve real problems Google faced:

Very large-scale systems

Too much build time

Poor dependency management

Lack of concurrency support in existing languages

✳️ So, Go’s main goals were:

Speed (compiled like C)

Simplicity (easy to learn like Python)

Concurrency (can run many tasks at once)

Efficiency (uses memory smartly)

Safety (strongly typed and secure)

⚙️ 2. Why was Go created?

At Google, developers were frustrated because:

C++ was fast but complex.

Python was simple but slow.

So they combined the best of both:
🧩 Go is simple like Python, but fast like C.

💼 3. Features of Go
Feature	Explanation
Compiled Language	Converts code directly into machine code, giving speed and efficiency.
Statically Typed	You must define variable types; helps catch errors early.
Garbage Collection	Automatically manages memory (like Java, Python).
Concurrency	Handles multiple tasks simultaneously using “goroutines.”
Standard Library	Comes with powerful built-in packages for I/O, web servers, cryptography, etc.
Cross-Platform	Runs on Windows, macOS, and Linux.
Simple Syntax	Designed to be readable and clean.
🌍 4. Who Uses Go?

Go is used by many global companies, including:

Google – internal systems and servers

Uber – for high-performance services

Netflix – backend tools

Dropbox – moved from Python to Go

Docker & Kubernetes – completely written in Go

Twitch, SoundCloud, Cloudflare, and many more

Go is extremely popular in cloud computing, backend systems, and DevOps.

🧩 5. Go Architecture Overview

When you write a Go program:

You write source code (.go file).

Go compiler (go build) compiles it into machine code.

The compiled file can be executed directly — no virtual machine or interpreter needed.

🧱 That’s why Go is fast like C, but still feels simple like Python.

🧠 6. Important Go Concepts You’ll Learn in Coming Days
Concept	Description
Variables & Constants	How data is stored and managed.
Data Types	int, float, string, bool, etc.
Operators & Conditions	if-else, switch, logical operators.
Loops	for loops, range loops.
Functions	reusable blocks of code.
Arrays & Slices	managing lists of data.
Maps	storing key-value pairs.
Structs	user-defined data types (like objects).
Interfaces	define behavior for types.
Goroutines	lightweight threads for concurrency.
Channels	communication between goroutines.
Packages	organizing code.
Error Handling	Go’s unique way of managing runtime errors.

📁 7. Go Folder Structure

When you install Go, it sets up a workspace.
By default, Go expects files in a structure like this:

C:\Users\Varshini\go\
│
├── bin\        → Compiled executable files
├── pkg\        → Compiled package files
└── src\        → Source code (.go files)


Your projects usually go inside the src folder.

Example:

C:\Users\Varshini\go\src\day1_hello
    └── hello.go

🧩 8. Go Program Structure (Detailed)

Every Go program follows this format:

package main     // 1️⃣ defines the package name

import "fmt"     // 2️⃣ imports standard library package for printing

func main() {    // 3️⃣ main() function is the entry point
    fmt.Println("Hello, World!")
}

📖 Explanation:
Line	Meaning
package main	A Go program must belong to a package. main is special — it means “start execution here.”
import "fmt"	Imports the formatting package (used for printing, input/output).
func main() 	Declares the main function — Go starts execution here.
fmt.Println()	Prints text to the terminal followed by a newline.
⚡ 9. How to Run a Go Program
Method 1: Run directly
go run hello.go


This compiles and executes the program immediately.

Method 2: Build and run
go build hello.go


This creates an executable file (hello.exe on Windows).
Run it by typing:

./hello


✅ Advantage: You can share or deploy this executable anywhere — no need for Go to be installed.

💡 10. How Go Code Executes (Step-by-Step)

You write a .go file (source code).

Go compiler translates it to machine code.

Go linker links all packages and libraries.

Binary executable file is generated.

Operating system executes the binary directly.

This is why Go is known for speed — it skips interpretation and runs natively.

🧩 11. Example Program (Full)
package main

import "fmt"

func main() {
    fmt.Println("Welcome to Go Programming!")
    fmt.Println("Developed by Google.") fmt.Println("Simple, Fast, and Powerful 🚀")
    
}

Output:
Welcome to Go Programming!
Developed by Google.
Simple, Fast, and Powerful 🚀

🔍 12. Key Points to Remember (Day 1)

Go file extension is .go

Every Go program must have:

a package declaration

a main() function (for executable programs)

fmt.Println() prints output with a newline

Go is case-sensitive

Indentation doesn’t define blocks (like Python) — instead, {} are used

Statements inside {} must be properly formatted (Go enforces clean style)

🏁 13. Day 1 Practice Tasks

✅ Create 3 separate .go files and try the following:

🧩 Program 1: Print your name
package main
import "fmt"

func main() {
    fmt.Println("My name is Varshini Siliveri.")
}

🧩 Program 2: Print today’s date and message
package main
import "fmt"

func main() {
    fmt.Println("Date: 3 November 2025")
    fmt.Println("Day 1 of 100 Days of GoLang 💪")
}

🧩 Program 3: Motivational Lines
package main
import "fmt"

func main() {
    fmt.Println("Learning Go step by step!")
    fmt.Println("Consistency builds mastery.")
    fmt.Println("100 days, 100 lessons, 1 new skill 🚀")
}

📘 14. Real-Life Analogy (To Remember Easily)

Think of Go like building a house:

House Term	               Go Equivalent	           Meaning
Blueprint	               package main         	Defines the structure
Toolbox	                   import "fmt"	            Imports tools (libraries)
Main door	               func main()	            Entry point of the program
Worker                     fmt.Println()	        Executes tasks (prints text)


🧩 15. Summary of Day 1
Concept	Description
What is Go	Fast, simple, compiled language by Google
Features	Concurrent, garbage-collected, cross-platform
Program Structure	package → import → main function
Execution	go run and go build
Syntax	Clean, consistent, and readable
Focus	Speed, simplicity, safety